If you recall, we have previously
discussed that the main categories of
machine learning tasks are classification,
regression,
cluster analysis, and
association analysis.
We have discussed
classification in detail.
Now let's look at the other categories,
starting with regression.
After this video you will be able
to define what regression is,
explain the difference between
regression and classification, and
name some applications of regression.
Before we talk about regression,
let's review classification.
In a classification problem the input
data is presented to the machine learning
model, and the task is to predict the
target corresponding to the input data.
The target is a categorical variable.
So the classification task is to
predict the category or label of
the target, given the input data.
The classification example shown
here is one we have seen before.
The input variables are measurements
such as temperature, relative humidity,
atmospheric pressure,
wind speed, wind direction, etc.
The task for
the model is to predict the weather
category associated with the input data.
The possible values for
the weather category is sunny,
windy, rainy, or cloudy.
Since we're predicting the category,
this is a classification task.
With that context in mind,
let's now discuss regression.
When the model has to predict
a numeric value instead of a category,
then the task becomes
a regression problem.
An example of regression is to
predict the price of a stock.
The stock price is a numeric value,
not a category.
So this is a regression task
instead of a classification task.
Note that if you were to predict not
the actual price of the stock, but whether
the stock price will go up or go down,
then that would be a classification task.
That is the main difference between
classification and regression.
In classification,
you're predicting a category, and
in regression you're
predicting a numeric value.
Here are some examples where
regression can be used.
Forecast the high temperature for the next
day, estimate the average housing price
for a particular region, determine the
demand for a new product, a new book for
example, based on similar existing
products, predict the power usage for
a particular power grid.
This is what the data
set might look like for
the regression task of predicting
tomorrow's high temperature.
The input variables could
be the high temperature for
today, the low temperature for
today, and the month.
And the target is the high temperature for
tomorrow.
The model has to predict this
target value for each sample.
Recall that in a supervised
task the target is provided.
Well, for an unsupervised task the target
is not available or not known.
Since the target label is provided for
each sample here,
the regression task is a supervised one,
similar to classification.
As with classification building a
regression model also involve two phases.
A training phase in which
the model is built, and
a testing phase in which
the model is applied to new data.
The model is built using training data and
evaluated on test data.
Similar to classification, the goal in
building a regression model is also to
have a model perform well on training
data, as well as generalize to new data.
The use of three different datasets
that we have previously discussed
also apply to regression.
Recall that the three
datasets are used as follows.
The training dataset is used to train the
model, that is to adjust the parameters of
the model to learn the input
to output mapping.
The validation dataset is used to
determine when training should stop
in order to avoid over fitting.
And the test dataset is used to evaluate
the performance of the model on new data.
In summary, in regression the model
needs to predict the numeric value
corresponding to the input data.
Since a target is provided for each
sample, regression is a supervised task.
The target is always a numerical
variable in regression.
In the next lecture,
we will discuss a specific algorithm
to build a regression model.